# Launch-Alert-VAK-s-Arch-of-Heaven-Stays-Ahead-Of-The-Curve-
Vishal Kothari, Founder and Creative Head of VAK, once again waves a magic wand to conjure yet another spellbinding bejewelled collection, The Arch of Heaven. The iconic artist speaks about his labour of love. The dominating arch silhouettes have been an integral part of world architecture since centuries. Deeply inspired by architectural elements, avant-garde artist, Vishal Kothari reveals the work that went into creating the seductive Arch of Heaven collection.  Why have you chosen the arch as the key motif for your new line?  My design vocabulary draws from art, sculpture, and motifs in architecture. I adore architects who create, build structures and edifices, homes, and places of sheer beauty. There are so many movements in architecture that leave one mesmerised … but you’ll find Art Nouveau, Gothic and, at times, Mughal influences in my work.  My design vocabulary draws from this art in old buildings, sculpture and motifs in architecture. The Arch of Heaven is for me the gateway to heaven … to paradise.  Of the many types of arches, which ones have you articulated in the collection? We can see ogee and oriental and some other stylised arches in the collection.   My arches are a nod to history from pre-existing indigenous Hindu buildings to Turkish and Iranian architecture that trickled into India with the Mughals. Arches are part of the DNA of India and many global cultures.  I call it the Arch of Heaven and it is my ode to the arches related to the Mughal history of the subcontinent. Arches represent a welcome, a homecoming. These three-dimensional sensations are a mix of many worlds … Worlds of yesterday and today, wafting between centuries. How did you meld old-world charm and new-age sophistication?  Bridging the gap between antiquity and contemporary, I have tried to lend a modern expression to traditional Mughal design in some of my Arch of Heaven earrings and rings. The use of portrait-cut diamonds evokes the legacy of Mughal art.  Patronised by Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan, the portrait-cut diamond originally covered miniature paintings. Portrait-cuts are among the earliest cut diamonds … in fact, these shards of diamonds are like slivers of magic. Usually colourless, with a very high clarity grade, portrait-cut diamonds are flawless and incredibly sophisticated.  My collection pays homage to the rich gem history of Mughal portrait cuts, which are also a personal favourite of mine. Crafting these cuts with precision I have tried to create a contemporary idiom in the rings, earrings, and necklaces to manifest a seamless, floating vision of diamonds! To know more: https://gjepc.org/solitaire/launch-alert-vaks-arch-of-heaven-stays-ahead-of-the-curve/
